one of my patreon supporters wrote to me
saying quote I remember going to
California's Channel Islands on a field
trip and hearing all these
rationalizations for the slaughter of
wild pigs on the islands a depressing
and alienating experience murder in the
name of wildlife management or eco
friendliness is still murder veganism if
it's at all about the animals and always
be partly about animals should work to
end the practices of hunting and culling
as much as animal farming and then he
gives a source discussing this further
now see what I do here in my reply so
this is a supporter of my channel but
someone who disagrees with my
fundamental political position what I
call wildlife management paradigm my
approach to to veganism animal rights
etc quote I disagree I'm not a utopian
philosopher I'm an historical nihilist
thus for example I do not believe we are
working towards a future world in which
vegans never kill rats or in which Park
Rangers never kill large mammals nor a
world in which war is obsolete
I believe we live in a world in which
humans will continue killing rats
forever even if 5% of the population
becomes vegan even if a hundred percent
of the world becomes vegan and so on for
park rangers or etc now if you read
academic and theoretical tracts within
the vegan political demi-monde
you will actually see many vegans making
the precisely the opposite claim so what
I've said here there are vegans who
claim that if just 10% of the population
becomes vegan famously direct action
everywhere claims it's just 3.5% they
have a specific three and a half percent
of people become vegan there will be all
these wonderful changes as a result some
people claim that war will cease to
exist some people claim that racism and
bigotry will cease to exist that the end
of speciesism brought about by the vegan
Awakening is gonna have all these
wonderful knock-on consequences and I
don't believe that at all
moreover fundamentally I do not believe
that if people become vegan they will be
able to stop killing rats right and this
is a sticking point it's interesting me
when I talk to vegans you've really
never thought it through no in order to
farm wheat in order to have urban
populations actually killing rats is
going to continue to and the example
that kicked all this off yes killing
wild animals often in the name of
ecology often in order to maintain that
ecosystem to maintain that forest or
what have you that kind of violence
against animals is going to continue
forever because I'm not a utopian
philosopher I'm not an extremist I'm not
an animal rights extreme pest I'm not a
vegan extremist I'm a moderate but I'm a
principled moderate people seem to
associate being a moderate politically
with compromise but if you're in a
position of perpetual compromise even if
you're a moderate at the beginning of
the political process you won't be a
moderate by the end within the Western
world in many ways my views and values
are moderate but they're actually based
on very inflexible principles that make
me I think despised by people standing
to the left of me people saying to the
right of me it makes you very easy to
despise all around even though your
position may indeed be moderate and well
intended and so on within veganism I
think that really is the sort of narrow
difficult precipice I have to stand on
at all times
politically I'm misperceived from all
angles I think people who are more
conservative than me probably perceive
me as being left-wing when I'm not and I
think probably people who are left-wing
and perceiving it's being conservative
when I'm not and it seems like the world
makes no place for me certainly Canada
makes no place to me let's not
generalize but the whole world Canadian
politics and politics the United States
there is no place for me in the
political spectrum to take a seat
neither on the left nor the right
nor on the center and why is that it's
because although my views are moderate
they are really very principled and
inflexible right um give you a couple of
really simple examples that might
surprise some of you there are all kinds
of things I feel we should tolerate as a
society I just genuinely do not see why
currently it's fashionable for so many
governments to tolerate and really
encourage gambling now I'm not a
conventional Christian I'm not Christian
at all sorry I'm a nihilistic atheist
it's not that I oppose you know gambling
for hokey old-fashioned reasons of that
kind but as it on the level of public
policy
there are many vices that I understand
why the government wants to tolerate
them or even encourage them and tax them
but to have the government running
casinos on a for-profit basis seems to
me fundamentally very immoral to see the
government running prisons on a
for-profit base that private
corporations signing contracts with the
government to run prisons at a profit
seems to me
so fundamentally and self-evidently
immoral and this one again may surprise
some of you in some ways I mean again
terms like left and right start to come
meaningless I still do not understand
why nobody else is alarmed by the
fundamental assumption in countries like
the United States and Canada that
hospitals run at a profit that you have
for-profit corporations in the medical
sector and not all countries do this I
note that Japan is one example of a
modern westernized country that has
hospitals that are very similar
aesthetically to what you'd expect in a
European hospital or a Canadian Hospital
American hospital but all of the
hospitals have to be incorporated on a
non-profit basis it's not the case that
surgeons are living in poverty in Japan
it's not the case that there's some
radical utopia but where you know the
government looked at this and said is it
really morally consistent and is it
really uh it doesn't make sense to have
something operating as a for-profit
entity in what clearly has to
kind of charitable endeavor in the in
the public interest so there are many
many of these issues and for me I mean
being Canadian living in Canada one that
comes up again and again of course as
First Nations people are native people
indigenous people decree the agility
etcetera and you know what any of our
political parties say and what they
really mean when they state their policy
positions on First Nations First Nations
languages and and their future and so on
there's really no where I can sit down
on the political spectrum left right or
center and be comfortable so that's the
situation I live with and yeah I've many
times said that when I go to vegan
meetups I meet other vegans face-to-face
it's a process of meeting people and
then finding out how little you have in
common which can be alienating and
disappointing and and frustrating you
meet other vegans you look for common
ground on which you can engage in some
kind of cooperative activism and instead
what you find again and again you find
out what principles or even just what
aesthetic assumptions may be separate
you and make it impossible for you to
get along and collaborate you know not
too many days ago I was talking to a
vegan activist who a featured on this
channel I've quoted him and he's his
work has turned up on this channel
several times seven some context a guy
named Harrison Nathan I was citing him
over Skype and right at the beginning of
the conversation he said a number of
things that were really insulting to me
really deeply insulting to me but he
said to me just kicking it off that he
didn't believe that I supported the
abolition of the slaughterhouse industry
at all that I wasn't pursuing that he
thought might the goals I was pursuing
were not revolutionary enough or were
fundamentally not abolitionist enough
now that conversation with it was
hilarious to me in many ways it really
convinced me this is somebody I never
wanted to work with and someone I never
wanted to hear from again I'm like okay
well I talked to him for three hours
it's like guess what buddy that's the
lot you're not getting another three
minutes out of me I never want to talk
to you get you some what I get worried
at all
it was it was hilarious and peculiar
because at the end of the conversation
he he complained that he found my use of
coarse language upsetting or insulting
during the conversation which wasn't
directed at him I was using a coarse
language in a very global way very
despairing despairing about the nature
of life on earth sort of way but that's
me seemed really hilarious it's like you
know buddy you seem to be at a really
low level of self-awareness in terms of
just how insulting and not insulting in
a shallow way how deeply insulting well
you've been saying to me this last
little while is you know what you've
said again and again including opening
by telling me that you don't even
believe I'm pursuing the goals of
veganism
well this what you see in the in the
text on screen here this is an example
of the kind of thing that separates us
right because what he really means is he
thinks I'm not revolutionary enough
because I'm not willing to pretend that
in the future we're all gonna love rats
and latts in return are gonna love and
take care of us right like the Vedic
rate this utopia where humankind and
rats are living together in harmony and
no I'm not willing to pretend that I'm
not willing to lie about that I don't
want to be part of a social and
political movement that's that's based
on a lie and I don't want to live a lie
myself again I'm a moderate but I'm
principled moderate that's the position
that I take and then someone like him
someone like this other activist he does
do a lot of street activism
he then perceives me as if I'm not a
real vegan no no I'm a real vegan I'm as
I'm the realest vegan of all I'm the
vegan who's willing to admit that even
if you're vegan you still have problems
with rat infestations you still have
problems with managing wildlife
populations and it still leads to
animals getting killed right so veganism
is not a perfect solution vegans may ask
all the right questions but we don't
have all the answers you know we have
answers to some really obvious and
fundamental stuff like slaughterhouses
if everyone stops eating meat we don't
need so many slaughterhouses in fact we
need zero you know this is a simple one
then when you press into you okay how do
you actually farm wheat without killing
Gophers though killing rats guess what
we got questions and we ain't got the
answers so you know do you want to call
yourself a revolutionary we our
revolution is based on self delusion
deception and lies or do you want to be
like me do you want to be a moderate and
you want to be principled in precisely
the sense that you're unwilling to trade
in convenient half-truths you're
unwilling to sell a lie
[Music]
evolution